docs/pyssa-documentation/docs/help/project/new_project.md, before:

??? general-information "General Information"
    
    Here are general information about the _New Project_ dialog window.

# New Project
<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   __Overview__

     In this dialog you can ...

    - create a new project.
    - create a new project and adding directly a protein structure in form of a PDB ID or a .pdb file.


</div>

## Getting Started
### Create a new project
1. Enter a new project name (1) 
    { .annotate }
    1. The project name must have 20 characters or fewer. Moreover, the only characters that can be used are 0-9, a-z, A-Z, -, _.

2. Click on _Create_.

### Create a new project and adding directly a protein structure in form of a PDB ID
1. Enter a new project name (1) 
    { .annotate }
    1. The project name must have 20 characters or fewer. Moreover, the only characters that can be used are 0-9, a-z, A-Z, -, _.

2. Tick the checkbox _Import Existing Protein_.
3. Enter the PDB ID into the newly opened text box.
4. Click on _Create_.

### Create a new project and adding directly a protein structure in form of a .pdb file
1. Enter a new project name (1) 
    { .annotate }
    1. The project name must have 20 characters or fewer. Moreover, the only characters that can be used are 0-9, a-z, A-Z, -, _.

2. Tick the checkbox _Import Existing Protein_.
3. Click on the button besides the newly opened text box.
4. From the file dialog choose an existing pdb file and click on _Open_
5. Click on _Create_.

---
##

##### See Also
[Open Project](open_project.md) :octicons-square-fill-16: [Delete Project](delete_project.md) :octicons-square-fill-16: [Import Project](import_project.md) :octicons-square-fill-16: [Export Project](export_project.md)

---

##### Related Overview
:octicons-square-fill-16: [Project](index.md)

Commit message:

updated the help center page of "create new project"

docs/pyssa-documentation/docs/help/project/new_project.md, after:

??? general-information "General Information"
    
    Here are general information about the _New Project_ dialog window.

# New Project
<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   __Overview__

     In this dialog you can ...

    - create a new project.
    - create a new project and adding directly a protein structure in form of a PDB ID or a .pdb file.


</div>

## Getting Started
### Create a new project
1. Enter a new project name (1) 
    { .annotate }
    1. The project name must have 20 characters or fewer. Moreover, the only characters that can be used are 0-9, a-z, A-Z, -, _.

2. Click on _Create_.

## Details
- You can add existing protein structures after you created the project.


---
##

##### See Also
[Open Project](open_project.md) :octicons-square-fill-16: [Delete Project](delete_project.md) :octicons-square-fill-16: [Import Project](import_project.md) :octicons-square-fill-16: [Export Project](export_project.md)

---

##### Related Overview
:octicons-square-fill-16: [Project](index.md)
